Today on a priors we have Jeremy
Allaire, the co-founder and CEO of
Circle. We'll be talking about
cryptocurrency, AI, agentic payments, AI
evolving on the blockchain, and a
variety of other topics. All right, well
thank you so much for joining us today.
It's a pleasure to have you.
>> It's great to be here. Thank you.
>> So, maybe we can start with you just
giving a quick uh review of Circle, what
you do, how you approach the world, cuz
I think we're going to be talking a lot
about stable coins, crypto, AI, and how
all these things tie into uh sort of the
agentic future. But I'd love to just
start with sort of the origins of the
company, what you're all up to, and we
can go from there.
>> Yeah, for sure. So, um yeah, Circle's
been around for a while. Uh I co-founded
the company uh over yeah, 13 years ago
or so, 2013.
And um it really at inception I was
really excited about this idea that we
could create a protocol for dollars on
the internet. And I had been really
excited about uh what was happening with
technologies like Bitcoin,
um and uh had been, you know, working on
kind of internet infrastructure for a
long time, and got really excited like
if we had like a protocol for dollars on
the internet, um that, you know,
potentially we could have a way to store
and move value, you know, instantly,
globally, frictionlessly, at no cost,
ultimately. Um the other idea that we
were really excited about back then was
this idea of programmable money, and the
idea that um eventually these these
networks, blockchains, would become like
operating systems, and you could
actually have machines that intermediate
economic activity and financial activity
on the internet, and including like
autonomous software machines, and
um back then we didn't have generative
AI or anything like that, but this sort
of idea of kind of commoditizing the
kind of payment utility layer,
um with like very safe digital dollar
digital currencies, and then having like
programmability of that with machines
that are kind of
tamper-resistant, can run on the
internet. That's what kind of drove the
founding of the company, and and the
view was like if we could do that, like
we could actually improve the financial
system, make it safer, make it more
accessible, make it more efficient,
and and kind of derive new utility for
money that we haven't had before. And so
that was sort of where we were.
>> Why is the dollar aspect of that
important? So if you look at a lot of
the things that happened in
cryptocurrency in the early days, it was
really about creating things that were
divorced from the traditional financial
system if possible
or were not dollar centric. So for
example, Bitcoin was in part a response
to the great financial crisis
>> Yeah.
>> view that all sorts of weird bailouts
happened there and therefore we needed
some alternative sort of financial
infrastructure for the world.
>> Yeah, so I think
so I actually it's what's very
interesting is like I I I had you know,
I believe in kind of Austrian economic
thought. I was you know, studying
Austrian economic thought like in the
early 1990s for for a very long time.
And so I've been interested in sound
money theory. And actually it was
studying the the kind of impact of the
global financial crisis that that drew
me into because my view is like there
has to be a way to build like a safer
>> Mhm.
>> financial system. And the key issue
there was
I was interested in this idea of full
reserve money. And in some ways Bitcoin
is full reserve money cuz you you you
know, you you kind of there is no way to
fractionally lend Bitcoin per se.
>> money means currency that's backed by
something hard behind it, some asset.
>> Doesn't necessarily mean it's a hard
hard hard back. Full full reserve money
is different than say fractional full
reserve banking I should say is
different than fractional reserve
banking. And so you know, back in in
there's another
major economic collapse, which was the
Great Depression, the run on all the
banks and all that fun.
And in the 1930s there was a really big
debate about like what's the right
construct for the banking system and the
financial system. And
there was a proposal from a group of
economists called the Chicago Plan. And
the kind of ringleader was a Chicago
economist. Actually it might have been a
Yale economist or Princeton at the time,
but uh Irving Fisher who wrote a a book
called 100% money.
>> Mhm.
>> And that idea was that full reserve
money was essentially,
you know, government obligation money.
It's so it's still the obligation of the
government like the US government in
that instance,
but that essentially,
um, you can have that and you can hold
that, but you can't take that and then
fractionally lend against it. So you
have kind of a full reserve, but you can
only lend full reserve money. And so
that was a a big proposal for how to
structure the the way the financial
system worked and it was actually
lobbied very very hard against it by the
banks. And the banks really liked
fractional reserve. They liked to be
able to have the inherent kind of
leverage and risk taking and instead
convinced the government to establish or
they collectively with the government
sanctioned established a a insurance
company
called the Federal Deposit Insurance
Company Corporation. And so that was a
kind of corporate insurance model, but
the risk taking still existed. And so
we've continued to kind of face those
issues. The great financial crisis was
an example of 30X leverage, 12X
leverage, 14X leverage against against
these sort of base layer. And so my
philosophy has been
well,
right now in terms of general utility,
our our existing economic system like it
it does depend on
really major reserve currencies like the
dollar. And my view is like that's going
to continue for a while. Maybe 30, 40,
50 years. It'll continue for a while.
But what we want to do is construct a
system that is in fact safer. So a full
reserve form of money. And that's what
stable coins are. That's what dollar
stable coins are. And in fact, with the
genius act that passed last year, it's
sort of codified in law. Like you can't
do anything with this. It's like this
very narrowly bound narrow money kind of
model. And so I think in some ways like
that original vision, we've now got
established in laws around the world. Um
and and now we have to do more with it.
We have to make it extraordinarily
useful. We need You can You can lend
that form of money as well, but it's
just that you can't do fractional
reserve.
>> So, what what what what are stable coins
uh currently backed by? My understanding
is, for example, there are uh the stable
coin companies are big buyers of
treasuries.
Uh or US treasuries and other sort of
instruments like that. Could you explain
a bit more as to what tends to back
these things?
>> Yeah. So, um up up until really the last
couple of years, um
you know, stable stable coins like USDC
were were um had to be always
one-for-one redeemable against um you
know, very safe liquid assets. Uh and we
couldn't take risk outside of what was
permitted under the kind of payment
system laws that regulated us. And so,
that was Circle. There are other people
who didn't take that approach. Uh
um and you know,
but you know, sort of fiat stable coins
in this way were backed that way. Now,
laws have now come into play in major
jurisdictions, whether it's in Europe or
Japan or the US, um etc.
And we've been following the whatever
laws apply to us, uh you know, whenever
they apply to us, obviously. But, um
what that's really led to is a an
architecture, which is basically what's
now federal law, which is um really
holding only short duration US
government treasuries
um
or uh treasury collateral that is
overnight with with like global banks.
Uh so, that's, you know,
very safe overnight treasury collateral
for cash.
Uh and then, you know, some amount in
cash that is for kind of immediate
liquidity, um
but in that case, it's sort of holding
it in these sort of big custodial
institutions like Bank of New York that
holds hundreds of trillions of dollars,
etc. So, of assets. And so, um
that is essentially the architecture of
USDC. And and we're very transparent. We
have daily transparency on the most of
it through a a system we set up with the
But, um
>> So, yes, USDC is like a crypto token
that anybody can effectively purchase
and in exchange for $1 you get one USDC
and that USDC continues to be backed by
a government treasury like a short-term
T-bill or some cash or some exchange.
>> right. It's it's backed by treasuries,
repos, and and and and short duration
T-bills. The average duration tends to
be of like the of the T-bills and and
that portfolio tends to be around like
13 days. So, it's super super liquid and
kind of it sort of allows it to be
treated as like a cash instrument.
>> What do people do with it? What are the
main use cases of USDC?
>> The the conception of this obviously is
like a general protocol for dollars on
the internet and in fact the whole
design is this is like a general purpose
general architecture money. And we
actually see it used, you know, from at
the very smallest end like someone who's
paying, you know, 25 cents for a digital
object in a digital game that's built on
a blockchain. That would be like one end
or even now we're starting to see and
we'll come back to this topic, I'm sure,
you know, AI agents that are paying for
the output of essentially the AI tokens
of another AI agent and they're, you
know, spending again just, you know,
a dollar, 50 cents, 20 cents, etc. So,
super tiny transactions at one end all
the way to the largest electronic
trading firms in the world that do huge
amounts of of capital markets activity
who are, you know, settling
multi-hundred million-dollar
transactions. And the powerful thing is
it's all the same. Just like, you know,
if I send you an email,
you know, the and my email's like, "Hey,
this is what I had for breakfast." the
payload of that is the same as if I sent
you an email that had like a CIA dossier
attached to it. Like,
USDC doesn't care. You know, so as a as
a general architecture it can be used
across a huge range of things and we
have everything from merchants in Stripe
and Shopify that are using it to Visa
actually using it themselves to actually
move money on their own internal network
instead of using the legacy banking
system to lots and lots of kind of neo
banks, remittances companies that are
using it as a way to move value. You
know, a great
kind of B2B
fintech ramp just yesterday launched,
you know, USDC as the core of their
treasury system. You can use it to pay
invoices, pay anywhere in
>> So my sense is some of the reasons
people do this is number one,
you can do it at any time. So for
example, if I send a wire, I know a lot
of crypto companies for example that
when they raise money, they ask you to
send USDC because instead of hitting a
wiring deadline in the afternoon, you
can wire the money on the weekend. You
can send money anytime.
>> just works the way the internet works,
right? I mean, our expectation is like I
can pick up, you know, my WhatsApp or I
can pick up my WeChat and I can just
communicate in video with anyone
anywhere and it just works, right? And
my expectation is like, "Hey, if I make
a piece of software like and I put it on
the internet, like billions of people
can access it. I don't need to do
something special." And and and I think
that's, you know, basically this is just
internet native and it runs on internet
protocols and so it behaves the way that
any piece of data or content behaves on
the internet, which is what our
expectations are, you know, most
people's expectations are.
>> Yeah, I was just trying to enumerate a
little bit of like what makes it a
superior instrument for all sorts of
purposes and one is 24/7 accessibility,
two maybe some form of transaction fees
relative to the volume, and then three
is
my sense is also a way for people to
participate in US dollars who often
would not have access directly and so
they use crypto as almost a proxy to
>> Yeah, for sure. I mean, I I think store
value is a really big thing and we see
that and and in fact like the the law
that was passed last year, the Genius
Act, like a big motivation for the
administration and this something that
we've been proposing and and kind of
pushing for a long time is
that this is a way to continue to export
the dollar and so we're now exporting
digital dollars and we're doing that all
around the world and that's like
strategically important to the United
States and from a geopolitical,
geo-economic perspective.
But you know, there's other things too,
which is this comes from my own
background as well, which is these are
this is programmable money. Um, there's
never been programmable money. Like you
actually have essentially like our
stablecoin network is just a public API
on the public internet that anyone can
plug into and use. And so, if I'm a
developer and I want like global dollar
settlement and I want to provide that as
a capability to my users, I don't have
to ask permission. I can just go connect
to that smart contract, connect to that
public API, and boom, I have now an
application with global digital dollar
utility. And so, that's really
different.
>> Mhm. Yeah, and smart contracts is
basically a way to write code that's
wrapped around this money that allows
you to effectively have a virtual
contract online. So, you can say under
XYZ conditions, pay this out. We're
going to generate a financial instrument
off of this, and it's just kind of based
on this other layer that you can plug
into effectively.
>> Yeah, that is definitely the case. And I
think like um
yeah, you know, the the idea of
programmable money was like again this
early idea that we had. And smart
contracts was sort of the original
expression. But when I looked at that 13
years ago,
my view is that blockchain networks are
operating systems. They're going to be
operating systems. And so, when we think
about operating systems, we've lots of
paradigms for that. We have mobile
operating systems. The web was itself
kind of an operating system with a
runtime and a language model and an
object model and you know, clouds became
kind of like these big virtual operating
system environments. AI foundation
models are now essentially operating
systems that execute tasks and and other
things. Blockchains are operating
systems. And they have compute engines.
They have virtual machines, and you can
write Turing-complete code. You can
write software that runs on these. But
there's some really key attributes that
make them different. So, the the first
is that the code is is sort of
tamper-resistant. It once it's
published, it's sort of like out as like
a machine that's tamper-resistant. The
second is it's perfectly auditable. You
can audit every single input and output
of that machine of that code in real
time.
>> in a public blockchain, so anybody in
the world can look it up.
>> So, it's like all the compute is public
accessible, it's open-source by nature,
and and that's really powerful as well.
And
and you know, it also has these sort of
essentially
kind of transaction and compute
integrity assurances. And this is really
key and it ties back to AI as well,
which is like you want assurances that
the machine is doing what it said it's
going to do. And you want kind of the
inputs and outputs to be provable to and
the state of the machine to be provable.
And these are these these are things
that it it was not easy to do in the
past. And so, these these network
computers
these operating systems now provide for
that. And as we're moving into the
AI-driven economic system, right, having
those mechanisms becomes even more
important. It happened to be important
for financial transactions where you you
know, integrity proof auditability
verify ability are like intrinsic in a
fiduciary apparatus. That was like
really key. But now when we're dealing
with you know, kind of autonomous
actions in the economy, that also
becomes extremely important.
>> be great to talk about that cuz you
know,
uh
Jeez, probably 7-8 years ago me and my
friends used to speculate that the most
likely place maybe that AGI would
emerge, which again, I don't think it's
going to be the case in the future,
would be off of the blockchain because
you had these effectively
agents they're very similar agency even
running back then in some sense in terms
of doing transactions on the blockchain.
And you had these economic games that
were multi-turn economic games to some
extent that these actors could play. And
so, we said, "Isn't that a great place
to basically evolve intelligence,
right?" Because you have these
multi-turn games, you have economic
incentives, you have game theory, you
learn all sorts of lessons off of that.
Obviously, there's a very different
world now with sort of generative AI and
foundation models. But I'd love to hear
your view of where is
where where are agentic payments going?
>> Yeah.
>> And is it going to be crypto? Is it
going to be more just traditional
banking systems? Is it a hybrid? Like
what do you think are the drivers of
that?
>> I mean there's a there's a lot in there.
There's a lot we could talk about. Um so
so maybe first like I think um
you know, my my own view is that uh you
know, we're going we're going through a
a pretty steep kind of curve right now.
We're like in in the you know, about 3
months into a pretty dramatic uh shift
in the kind of the fundamental
capabilities of technology. Um probably
the most dramatic that I've ever seen in
my own time in in technology. And I
think um you know, that shift is is
effectively going to mean that um a
couple things in my view. So the first
is that um more and more of the actual
work that is done in the real economy um
especially in uh in in you know, kind of
the what we call the white-collar
economy, but
but in in many many areas of service and
delivery and and and so on. Like so much
of that is going to be conducted by AI
agents. And so AI agents conducting the
work, AI agents collaborating with each
other, AI agents, you know, consuming
services from each other and and kind
of, you know, purchasing effectively
specialized intelligence or output, etc.
Like this is we're on a really
interesting curve there. And so the kind
of agentic economy is being born as we
speak.
>> Mhm.
>> And in that world um we need a different
infrastructure for the financial
intermediation like
>> Why?
>> Um well, we don't have a an
infrastructure that can support that. We
don't have an infrastructure that can um
work globally interoperably, instantly,
that can be uh
programmed uh through software layers by
arbitrary pieces of software. That
doesn't exist.
We need an infrastructure where the
agents themselves can uh dynamically
create and spin up uh different kind of
uh
financial endpoints themselves. We need
transactions that can scale potentially
into the
you know billions or trillions of
transactions. We don't have that. Uh we
also need we need the ability to kind of
handle transactions at micro scale as
well. So you know for example consuming
certain amount of intelligence might be
5 cents or 10 cents as it is with these.
And so we need we need that to work. We
need that to work in real time again
between any piece of hardware software
anywhere in the world.
>> Isn't that really all about those stuff
that people have been talking about for
a long time in terms of just crypto?
>> Like the benefits of crypto or whatever.
It hasn't really become possible until
really just the last couple of years. So
you it really took kind of third
generation blockchains to actually
deliver on this. So now today like
you know you actually can look at like
transaction volumes of USDC which is by
far the most transacted digital currency
in the world way more than anything
else. And
transaction volumes have grown
incredibly and
off of like a monetary base that's also
growing but the transaction volumes are
growing way faster. And that's because
money velocity has picked up. The the
cost to transact is now sub cent
reliably. And so when you take out the
cost you can do more transactions. And
so with Arc which we can come back to
you know we we now have an
infrastructure where we can conduct
transactions for a millionth of a penny
which just was never feasible before. So
>> Yeah tell us more about Arc because I
know that you folks are rolling this out
as your own blockchain etc. I would just
like to learn more about what it is what
are the use cases what are the
advantages of
>> Um I would love I would love to talk
about that. I want to finish one other
thought on this sort of this sort of
identity piece which is I think um
uh in addition to this sort of like
financial infrastructure that's needed
in in this world and and and the role
that will play and it ties back to your
your actual kind of question and stuff
that you were thinking about before is
um my own view is that you know agents
and and you seeing what happened with
open claw and mold book and all this
stuff is all really interesting because
it showed that you could actually see
emergent forms of of cooperation of of
interaction of of
of of engagement amongst AIs and that's
pretty powerful and clearly like we're
at the front edge of that like there's
going to be a lot more of that and so
if you have AI agents that are from
around the world they could be generated
from lots of different models and LLMs
and the like
and and they need to kind of coordinate
they need a medium a trust a trust a
trustworthy medium where they can do
that where they can instantiate an
entity where they can store value in
that entity they can execute and arrange
contracts that intermediate the work on
the tasks and that where all of it is
real-time mathematically and
computationally provable and so
blockchain infrastructure now actually
gives us the building blocks for when I
say agentic economic activity most
people think oh that's e-commerce or
payment it's not agentic economic
activity is actually how does the
organization of of what we used to talk
think of as labor and capital but
essentially like kind of how does this
organization of kind of compute work
happen and and what kinds of kind of
corporate forms might emerge in that
world to do that so I'm actually quite
interested in that that does tie to arc
cuz that's a a design service that we
care about which is basically we we
describe arc as an economic operating
system and this goes back to a comment I
made earlier which is these networks are
operating systems and
we're we're moving now from the kind of
like early adopter era which you're very
familiar with which was mostly around
like you know speculation on different
things there were some interesting
things like NFTs or whatever but like
we're now moving very squarely because
of stable coins into like the real
economic activity side of this,
and um and and I think my view is that
um as we go forward, the the the
substance of what we think of as
contracts, the substance of what we
think of as corporations, are going to
be software machines themselves. And so
we're going to we're going to see this
progression. And so Arc as an economic
operating system is conceived of as a
compute environment for laying down all
of the building blocks of economic
activity, whether that's storing value,
moving money, uh or instantiating a
corporate form, or manifesting and
intermediating complex contracts. Like a
lot of this stuff which was conceptual a
long time ago is now like real. And we
have a legal basis for it. We have a
regulatory clarity for it increasingly,
uh and it's interesting is is that the
drivers of this machine economy are
actually machines. Uh and so, you know,
our our view is um
uh you know, Arc is designed for this
moment, which is a a moment when
machines are going to play a larger and
larger role in all of the output of of
of of uh of the economic system.
>> So if I look at a lot of the blockchains
that um have people have found exciting
over the last few years, um obviously
there's Bitcoin which, you know, was
almost purposefully designed in a
certain way to make it a little bit less
adaptable to all these new things that
are happening now.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh you know, Solana, Ethereum, etc. have
been the in the past the traditional
places that people have thought about
ways to build smart contracts, to build
a lot of the types of things that you
just described. What do you think is a
difference between some of these more
traditional L1s or blockchains and sort
of what you're doing at Arc?
>> Yeah. So a few a few big things. I think
the the first is that um
you know, as as as I think you were
sharing or we were talking about before
we started recording, but like um you
know, I think a lot of the designs on
blockchains um
from from let's call it the early
adopter phase,
a lot of it was sort of like, "Hey,
we're going to build something that is
completely
you know, censorship resistant or
outside of the reach of governments."
It's sort of like, "We're building an
alternative universe." And and that's
like the goal. Um and and I think, you
know, decentralization is itself a good
goal. But, I think as we move from early
adopter to sort of mainstream scaling,
where, you know, whether it's, you know,
a major company like Walmart or or it's,
you know, a household that's thinking
about like how they store their wealth,
the the the intermediaries, and there
will continue to be intermediaries,
we're not all going to be your own bank.
Um the intermediaries um have
obligations in terms of the the the the
kind of like robustness of the
infrastructure that they have to run.
And so, Ark is actually set up with a
number of features. One is that it's
actually a known validator set. And so,
um the the infrastructure operators of
Ark are
major financial infrastructure
companies. And so, and and those are
companies that are held to these very
high standards for infosec, compliance,
reliability, availability. And so, we
have some of the validators on your
network. So, we haven't announced uh the
validators yet. Um
uh but that will come in in due course.
Um but um
you know, the the the the model uh
at a at a high level is that you have
financial companies uh financial
infrastructure companies, in including
possibly like large technology
companies, that are responsible for
running the infrastructure. So, it's a
distributed infrastructure, but because
of that, we're able to provide
assurances. We're able to provide
assurances that like the bad guys aren't
running your transactions. Um and we can
also run assurances that transactions
actually have settlement finality. Like
they can't be hard forked, they can't be
reorged. Uh and so, you can get what's
called deterministic settlement
finality. And that's really important
whether it's a security or a piece of
cash or whatever it is in you know in
essentially hundreds of milliseconds and
that's really important. The other piece
is that it's sort of designed with real
money as the foundation. So there's not
like a volatile gas token. USDC is
actually the default native token which
is now under the law essentially like a
legal form of electronic money.
>> Uh-huh.
>> So you have real dollars as the way that
people understand and so to a company
that's like doing this it's like I pay
AWS credits. I understand how to budget
for that my treasury my operations my
compliance etc. So this allows basically
for like
actual usage to be make sense both to
the user to the developer to the
corporations to the FIs that that deal
with this. So so that's really
important. And then I think the other is
like we've been building in a lot of
primitives that are important to like
the way that payment systems work the
way that capital markets work the way
that you know the the privacy
requirements that are needed in some of
these cases but still allowing for like
compliance to happen. So
we've kind of purpose built this for a
different
kind of set of participants who need to
run on it and we've had the advantage as
Circle of working with many of the
leading financial institutions that are
getting into this space over the last
couple years whether it's the Visas or
the Blackrocks or the Bank of New York
Melons or all these types of companies.
So we've had we've been able to work
with them and we've been able to work
with governments around the world to
hear like hey
like central bankers all over the world
what's important as you think about like
allowing this internet infrastructure to
run the financial system and we're kind
of trying to incorporate in a lot of the
kind of requirements in the sense that
they have. And so that's that's very
different. I think it's a different
design space and I think um
you know these new distributed network
operating systems will will need to
support like the real economy's activity
not a kind of shadow economy. And so
that's just
substantively different. There are a lot
of other technical things I could talk
about which
that that are part of it, but those are
I think helpful just in terms of framing
this.
>> What else do you think is interesting
that's happening in the crypto world
today outside of stablecoins and sort of
related infrastructure? Cuz I know that
there was a whole wave of things that
people were doing um on the
infrastructure side there was the key
rollups. There's a variety of approaches
in the last few years.
Besides stablecoins, is there anything
that you think was especially
um interesting or that will be
impactful? Or are a lot of these things
kind of infrastructure looking for
solutions? I'm sort of curious how you
think about crypto at large right now.
>> Yeah, I mean look, I think um
um there's a lot of attention that has
gone into kind of
um what I'll broadly call kind of
scaling models. And so, if you if you
take as your as your uh kind of design
center that these are network computers
and these network computers are really
good at establishing uh record keeping
that is kind of public and available to
all and to perform computing on those
records that's public and available to
all. That's a as a as a general utility
space that's like super super
interesting.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Um and so, a lot of the a lot of this
has been like, "Okay, well, how do we
make sure that that can scale?" And so,
as an example, right, in a in a world of
like billions of AI agents that are
swarming and doing other things, like
scaling this is actually extremely
important. So, ZK, you know, rollups as
an example or zero-knowledge proofs more
broadly as a way for um proving compute
which allows you to do compute off
off-chain and then prove it to the
on-chain. That's actually really
important. So, you these sort of
off-chain or trusted execution
environments and other things that
provide cryptographic proofs of compute
or or or uh other kind of uh
assertions becomes really key. So, that
actually a lot of that research is now
becoming extremely valuable. Um the same
thing goes for a lot of that research um
and development is critical to um
enabling privacy. And so, we want you
know, we want all the benefits of kind
of open interoperable kind of
permissionless infrastructure, but we
also want to be able to have privacy.
Like corporations don't want everyone to
see what they do or we don't want to be
doxed and like all this kind of stuff.
And so the that's now coming into into
real production. That was like researchy
for a long time. Like Arc day one is
shipping with like built-in privacy
primitives,
which is which is again the result of a
lot of work for a long time.
And so those are those are important
pieces. And then um
you know, I think as kind of more
large-scale financial infrastructure
comes over to this as we move you know,
where the New York Stock Exchange or the
the biggest derivatives clearing houses
are like yeah, we're going to move to an
on-chain world. Like the scaling stuff
becomes really really critical. And so
I I actually feel like now more than
ever like those big work streams are are
are coming online and you know, if I use
as a reference point like you know, I
spent a long time building on the early
internet in the early 90s in the early
web and like all this stuff all the way
up until like 2001 for like you know,
for me it was like 10 years. And it was
still it was like awful still. Like it
just like you kept grinding and it was
like how do we make this useful? How do
we make this useful? How do we make this
useful? And then you had you know, a
whole bunch of things happened that were
in the background like you know, Wi-Fi,
broadband, you know, you finally got
like usable um other internet connected
devices and you could actually really
start to do stuff. So you could actually
actually deliver software over the
internet. You could actually deliver
media over the internet. You could
actually do communications like
real-time communications over the
internet. But it was like 10 years in
the desert or longer before you could
even get there. And I kind of feel that
way about the blockchain space. Like
it's been a dozen years or so and and
now we're kind of having like the
broadband moment and the demands of
society and the financial system, the
agentic economy, all of that is sort of
coming together at a really interesting
time. I guess the one thing that people
have been talking about for a long time
in the crypto world is securitization of
other assets on the blockchain.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that would be stocks. So should
you be able to buy fractions of
Berkshire Hathaway
>> Yep.
>> um using crypto.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and should that be globally
available? Given the success of USDC and
other stablecoins, that's made it even
more interesting in terms of approval
model.
When do you think that stuff will happen
and what approach do you think will be
taken?
>> How does that tie into the agentic
world?
>> It's totally happening. Um there's a
great site if people are interested
called rwa.xyz.
Real world assets is sort of what that
refers to. rwa.xyz. I'm very proud
because uh like there there are
tokenized uh stocks that are out there
and the most uh
active tokenized stock today is not
Tesla, it's it's not the S&P index, it's
actually Circle. Um so that was cool to
see.
>> That's cool.
>> Um we also uh you know, have seen this
growth in like tokenized money markets.
So basically like on-chain treasury
bills. We actually operate the largest
tokenized treasury uh product called
USYC, like US yield coin. Um it's uh
that's grown quite fast as well. Um
and we we run the largest tokenized euro
as well. Uh EURC. And so we're we're
definitely like looking at this this
broadening out. I think um
there's a huge effort right now at every
layer of the whole financial system
stack to go into tokenization. So all
the way down at the layer of like the
people that keep the records of the
stock which is like you know, if if
you're familiar like the computer shares
of the world, companies of the world, up
to like the the layers that like are the
depository clearing systems like the
DTCC which you know, most people don't
know, but it's actually like the
backplane of how all securities work.
Like they're moving to tokenize. And
then the actual like brokers and
exchanges want to take those and support
those tokens and and trading on those
tokens and distribution of those tokens.
So, Nasdaq, New York Stock Exchange, all
of them, they're all doing this as we
speak. And as we speak, the SEC has been
providing clear guidelines on how to do
that. And so, they actually issued
guidance just about a month or so ago
that basically said, "Here's what you do
in all these layers. Here's you know,
here's your obligations." And so, we're
at a point where like technology and
then the market's desire is creating
that. And right now, the interesting
thing about things like tokenized stocks
is um mostly it's interesting to enable
people not in the US to access these. Um
that's where the a lot of the growth has
happened cuz not everyone has access.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh you know, if you're Used to go the
the other way, right? There used to be
Chinese stocks that were basically held
in uh third-party instruments that you
could purchase
>> Yeah.
>> on stock exchanges so you could
participate in some of the Chinese
listed entities and all
>> no, there's I mean, that's definitely uh
some of the packagers like of like ETFs
and funds and stuff are kind of
mirroring
um for sure. Um but um you know, I think
like uh this is similar to like
you know, when when we got went through
like the web becoming available or
broadband really hitting uh the scale, a
lot of times people just think, "Oh, I
have this existing product. I can now
put it over here." Like, "Here's the TV
show. I'm going to put the TV show over
here." I think um what becomes a lot
more interesting or here's the game.
It's this game that used to be on a CD
and now I can you can download it or
whatever. I think the really interesting
thing is like what can you do that you
couldn't do before? What kind of utility
gets unlocked, whether it's
fractionalization or how you can how you
can borrow and lend on these things, or
um how you could package them together
in different ways, and and enable and AI
could play a pretty significant role in
that as well.
>> Seems like it could really tie into some
of the prediction market stuff as well
that's been happening because to some
extent the world's biggest prediction
markets are actually stock markets. And
so, or financial markets, I should say
>> Yeah.
>> And and and prediction markets
themselves are becoming kind of um
a kind of parallel infrastructure for
people who participate in stock markets,
right? In fact, the biggest adopters, it
seems, of the market makers of
prediction markets are actually the
people who are trying to figure out the
what is reality and what does that mean
for companies and equity shares and
stuff and the interplay or or or
whatnot. Um And uh yeah, I mean, we're
we're seeing that. I mean, USDC powers
Polymarket, for example. Um and uh and
and so the same guys that are, you know,
trading derivatives over here on on, you
know, oil or Bitcoin over here are also
like I'm moving my money quickly using
USDC over here to like figure out what's
going to happen in some uh event.
>> Let's call. The one other thing that I
think has been happening a little bit
recently is there's been a couple papers
that have been focused on um
basically tying proof of work into just
generic inference work.
>> Yes.
>> In other words, can you tie those two
things so you're being very um GPU
efficient in terms of what you're doing,
but also you can effectively generate
>> Yes.
>> income on a revenue through GPU usage
while you're using it for inference for
other purposes.
>> I'm really interested in that. Uh and
and and I think um
again, the little conversation we were
having before we recorded, like, you
know, proof of work, obviously, um it
was itself an innovation and and sort of
um essentially like the exhaust of the
proof of work of Bitcoin is is just like
the exhaust of energy consumption. And
so it doesn't actually it in some ways
it's waste in a sense. The the energy is
is waste. And and so I think the idea of
uh essentially like inference compute uh
as GPU uh inference compute as proof of
work, and so the work itself is the
inference. And uh that as the underlying
basis for a proof of work uh
cryptocurrency is pretty interesting. Um
and uh
would would be, you know, potentially
something that could align with the kind
of monetary principles of something like
Bitcoin, yeah,
>> Yeah.
>> but actually uh
be productive uh productive proof of
work. That's really interesting. And so,
you know, I I
My my my own view, and this is like, you
know, I think goes back a long time, is
like
the, you know, people have kind of
axiomatically sort of assumed like,
well, Bitcoin is the the the the
the thing. It got the network effects.
It has all of this. Um, and I've always
said like, I don't know what we're going
to be using in 10 years. Like, we don't
know. Now, um, Bitcoin has lasted a
really long time. Um, but I think like
the paradigm shift that we're seeing in
in um, in energy infrastructure, in the
performance of of, you know, the
conversion of energy into an
intelligence, and the computer layers in
that, it certainly opens up a new avenue
to think about this that wasn't readily
available, you know, 15 years ago.
>> So, if you were to give one piece of
advice to agents, it would not be buy
Bitcoin.
I'm just checking.
>> I have a better question. Um, so, in
terms of
say we were to think out 10 years,
um, what does that world look like in
your mind? And obviously, we're going
through a period of intense change.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm finding it incredibly hard to
predict the future right now in terms of
just what's going to happen in AI, much
less AI plus crypto plus the global
economic system plus everything else.
So, given all that, and putting that
aside,
um, what is your vision of the future?
>> Yeah.
Well, I mean, a couple of things I I
would say. Uh, the the the first is is
sort of the the thing that everyone is
debating right now is the pace of AI
diffusion, right? So, what is the pace
of AI diffusion? And and what does that
then imply in terms of the the kind of
amount of change that we're going to
have to deal with? And so,
that's all debatable, right? You you
hear Dario debating that versus others
and and so on. But like, it definitely
feels like, you know, the diffusion
limiters are are um, in in in in some
cases bureaucratic, in some cases legal,
in some cases human risk or other
things, right? But we have we have these
limiters that are there. Um, but But
does seem like um,
the the pace of diffusion is
accelerating and will continue to
accelerate and um, and and that's pretty
dramatic. And and so I guess like my own
view um, it's it's very rooted in my own
like political and economic philosophy
is is that um,
we we have a real opportunity to uh,
create um, essentially new
new social, political, and economic
organizational structures. Um, and and
in many ways like we have to. There's a
kind of you know, in these periods
whether it's the the Enlightenment and
and the Industrial Revolution and other
things like there's these periods where
um, there's like a a a new definition of
the social contract. And and that new
definition of the social contract is
then in turn reflected in social,
political, and economic ordering and the
mechanisms that we use for those things.
And I it feels like to me like
we're going to be we're going to be
forced through that. And um, and I think
you know, that's simultaneously like
terrifying and exciting etc. And and and
I am of the view that we are going to
have a a
a kind of lag effect between the
disruption and the establishment of
those new institutional forms. Um, but
at the same time I actually believe like
new institutional forms are going to be
emergent out of this. And so as I talked
about earlier like the formation of
these kind of on-chain organizations
that have different forms of of
governance and contracting and
uh, and and a mixture of human and and
agentic uh, actors like that seems like
we're going to have a lot more of that.
We're going to probably have huge
proliferation of that. And it may be
that those
corporate forms um, are like the most
productive corporate forms that we've
ever seen in economic history. And and
then you know, they'll they'll need to
be kind of like an overlay into the
governance systems of of uh,
you know, political uh, or organizations
and and systems as well. And it um, yeah
so I you know, like my view is uh
we're going to have simultaneously all
around the world um, a renegotiation of
the social contract and it's going to be
uh
it it it is going to require um, new
systems of participation in economics
and governance that
we haven't had. Um, that's like very
high-level mumbo jumbo-y, but it's also
um, you know, sort of how how I think
about it at a high level.
>> That's super interesting. Have you ever
heard of a book
>> Lady of Mazes?
>> No.
>> It's like a sci-fi book from I don't
know, 15 years ago about the post-AI
world and part of it is um, as a big
enough block or demographic emerges in
human society uh, an overlay AI agent is
observing everything spawns a specific
agent that represents that viewpoint
that then is part of this sort of
virtual senate.
>> I see.
>> negotiating policies. So it's kind of
this interesting view of how can you
spontaneously spawn these sorts of
systems from a governance perspective,
which is kind of cool.
>> Uh, I would love to read that.
>> What is your prediction
um
And so if you look at a lot of prior
ways of technology their actual impact
to GDP has been difficult to tease out.
>> Mhm.
>> Right? So the productivity gains of the
internet versus actual GDP growth or
things like that have been notorious and
there's all sorts of reasons for that.
It could be measurement. It could be
deflationary aspects of some of these
things. It could be a variety of things.
How do you think about the GDP impact of
AI? So if you think ahead 5 years
>> Yeah.
>> and you know, what what do you think the
global economy is?
>> Yeah.
>> 10% bigger? 50% bigger? Three times the
size? Does that even matter as a metric
anymore like
>> Yeah, I mean um, like I I I see this
debated all the time and Cathie Wood's
talking about, you know, we're going to
have 10% GDP growth for the 2030s and
you know, etc. Um
I I I I don't quite know what to think.
I mean, I think um,
you know
it it's it's quite plausible that the
um
the the kind of
giant leaps that we see in kind of
productive output in a huge range of of
industrial to other commercial services
etc. like really drives a very
significant discontinuous jump in in in
in in GDP at an absolute level. It'll
have
in many ways probably less meaning than
we've historically had with GDP
and you know the kind of economic
well-being indexes that we think about
like GDP will be you know the risk here
is that GDP
effectively like the GDP growth is a
sort of capital capturing more capital
at the at the expense of of humans. Like
that's the real risk.
And so like GDP growth generally has
been like a really great thing
and and so the the question is is like
will it remain a great thing? Do we have
the new social contract to to to deal
with that yet? I guess my my general
view just sort of as a technologist
talking about you know seeing what we
see with diffusion and and kind of other
other changes like it does it does feel
like we have the potential for
double-digit GDP numbers in the 2030s.
Like that's that seems not unrealistic
to me. Not that that's going to be
uniform all around the world but
certainly in large large parts of the
world that seems very uh
you know
achievable
based on what I see.
>> Mhm. Amazing. Thank you so much for
joining us today at No Priors super
interesting conversation. Thank you.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.